[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: One in four
Americans between the age of 18
to 25 have seriously
contemplated suicide.
>> BRADLEY NELSON: We're
not designed to be isolated.
We're designed to be together.
93% of people have this heart
wall phenomenon where the heart
can feel like it's in danger.
When that wall is
taken down, we've
seen suicidally depressed
people get well in days.
What we have to get
back to really is--
>> REGINA: Dr. Bradley Nelson,
creator of the Emotion Code
and the Body Code is with
us once again to have a much
needed discussion.
The world has been
through so much
of late between the pandemic
and world events, all of which
are leaving a highway of
depression in its wake.
Let's see how we can begin
to eliminate or overwrite
those programs lodged
in our subconscious.
And gosh, it all comes
down to that subconscious.
That pesky thing that's kind
of like a little bag of garbage
on our back, but
also of potential.
And so I think most
people don't really
understand just how
much our lives are
run by the subconscious.
And we're going to get
into that in a little bit.
But first of all, I
wanted to talk to you
about some really
kind of troubling news
that has surfaced recently.
And I think a lot of it has
to do with young people whose
world has become deconstructed.
They're not going to
class, a lot of them
they're not interacting
with each other.
And this was what came up.
One in four Americans
between the age of 18 to 25
in a recent study have
seriously contemplated suicide.
Those are not normal numbers.
But here we are, and you
have a massive clientele.
Emotion code is globally.
So first of all, I
wanted to find out
from you, what kind
of urgency or shift
of your practitioners-- what
about 5,000 of them now?
>> NELSON: We've got 7,000.
>> REGINA: 7,000.
I'm behind.
That was last time we talked.
OK.
You've been getting feedback
as the center of all of it.
What has happened since the
world's events have changed
and the pandemic began?
>> NELSON: Well, I
think that, of course,
what's happening with people
is that they're being forced
into more isolation than
they've ever experienced before.
And we're not designed
to be isolated.
We're designed to be together.
We're not designed to be apart.
And so what that's
doing is it's creating
a lot of emotional baggage
for a lot of people.
And of course, when you
experience intense emotions,
those emotions sometimes
if they're too powerful
or if you have a tendency
to bury those emotions
and not want to feel
them, then those energies
can become trapped in the body.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> NELSON: And of course,
those are trapped emotions--
>> REGINA: And we're
going to get into that.
>> NELSON: Yeah.
What we find is that
there are more people now
that seem to be forming
what we call a heart wall.
>> REGINA: Interesting,
explain that.
We talked about
it in another show
but now that is
becoming so prominent,
let's give it center
stage for a bit.
>> NELSON: Well, what happens--
of course, the heart itself
is the seed of the soul
and the source of love and
creativity and romance.
Everything the ancient
peoples believed it to be.
And in modern science,
they're starting
to show now that the heart
really truly is a brain.
It's mostly nervous tissue.
Most of the messages between
the brain and the heart
are going from the
heart to the brain.
Instead of they thought
it would be the opposite.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> NELSON: And so what happens
to us is that when we feel like
our heart is going to break
or when things are really
difficult or we're in a very
insecure sort of situation
and things are going on like
what we've been seeing over
the last year or so, then it's
a situation where the heart can
feel like it's in danger.
And especially, this
happens if you feel
like your heart is breaking.
If you're going
through a breakup
or if you are really deeply
grieved or deeply hurt,
you can feel those physical
sensations like your heart
is actually going to break.
When that's going on,
the heart will put up
a wall around itself.
I believe the heart is actually
the seed of the subconscious,
really.
And it will put up a wall
around itself made of layers
of your emotional baggage.
And that's a protection
to protect the deepest
core of who you are.
And the problem
with that, though,
is that even though it might
be great in the short term,
and when the bombs
are falling, it's
kind of like moving your
heart into a bunker.
But the problem is when
things start to normalize,
now your heart is still
living in this bunker
and you've got this
wall around your heart.
And you see, when people
feel love or affection
for each other,
there's an energy
that travels from their heart
to that other person's heart.
And the problem is when
you have a heart wall,
that energy, the passage of
that energy is interfered with.
And so it makes it much harder
for you to give and receive
love, harder to really create
the perfect creation that I
think is in the heart, and
that subconscious mind.
And so in that
wall is taken down,
we've seen suicidally depressed
people get well in days
from having that
wall taken down.
I believe it's the most
important thing that people
can do for themselves.
I think that what we have to
get back to, really, is love
and unconditional love.
And unconditional
love basically says
that when you're feeling
it, you don't really
care whether somebody
is broke or homeless
or whether they have a different
political view than you
or whether they have a
different gender than you,
it's all about loving
people unconditionally.
And I think that that
is what it ultimately
is going to save the
world and what we need
to move towards, all of us.
The fascinating thing
about taking down
the wall around the heart
is that oftentimes people
fall in love even at
advanced stages that
never thought they would.
People find that they
can feel the love
of the creator, the higher power
for them when they could never
feel it before.
And in fact, I've got--
I have a story I can share
with you really quickly.
>> REGINA: Oh, do.
>> NELSON: This is a man named
Giacomo Ravelli in London.
He said, after my heart
wall was released,
my life completely changed.
I became far more
open to the divine
and I started lucid dreaming.
This is cool.
After a few months,
I entered into
my first long-term relationship
with an amazing partner
in which I am very happy.
At first, I thought I wanted to
pursue a completely different
profession.
But after one month, my
resolve for my current passion
strengthened and I'm achieving
better results than ever in it.
I'm so grateful that I
discovered the heart wall
and had it released.
93% of people in this world
have this phenomenon going on.
This heart wall phenomenon.
>> REGINA: Now, let's go into
this because we now have all
this stuff, this whole
new body of challenge kind
of that's been inculcated into
our fear base and into the deep
memory, the subconscious,
and so forth.
Let's talk about how you start
working with people when they
have this kind of mass mental
trauma and someone comes to you
and says, I can't talk
to my family anymore.
I am so depressed.
Where do you begin
with them now?
>> NELSON: Well,
think about a glass.
We'll use this cup.
And let's imagine that this
cup is your being, your energy
body, your physical body.
And let's imagine that that cup
has emotional baggage in it.
And that emotional
baggage, some of it
is from when you
were a kid and used
to cry yourself
to sleep at night.
Some of it is from
when your parents were
arguing when you were young.
Some of it is the
break up you had
in junior high in high school.
Some of it is the divorce
that you went through.
Some of it is the
bad work situation
that you went
through, and so on.
And so what happens
is most people
have a cup that is most
of the way full already
with emotional baggage.
And a pandemic comes along.
And then all of this political
intrigue and everything
comes along.
And the problem is
there's no place
for that emotional
baggage now to really go,
and so it starts to overflow.
And people then
can't deal with life.
And so what we do is we start to
remove their emotional baggage
so that instead of their cup
running over all the time,
now they're creating
room so that they
can deal with the new emotional
stuff that's coming on.
And of course, in The Emotion
Code also in the last chapter,
we teach people how to
deal with emotional stuff
so that they're not so prone to
develop new emotional baggage.
>> REGINA: Well, why don't
we talk about that for just
a moment?
Then we'll get into the nuts and
bolts of fixing it once you've
let it get in there.
>> NELSON: OK.
>> REGINA: Want to talk about
that last chapter for a minute?
>> NELSON: Well, absolutely.
We talk about love
in that chapter,
and we talk about the
importance of feeling love
and how important it is to--
and how shifting it can
be for your own energy
to just tell people
that you love them.
And when you tell someone
that you love them, really
from your heart, and
anyone can do this,
even if you're not
saying it out loud,
your heart sends that energy to
them, their heart picks that up
and it understands that
on a subconscious level.
Practical example.
Recently, my wife and I
were shopping at Costco.
And you could feel the
panic in everybody.
I don't know, I think it was--
there was something going on.
>> REGINA: --people
filling up the carts at 9
o'clock in the morning.
>> NELSON: Exactly.
And I could feel the panic.
Everybody, people are zooming
around faster than I've ever
seen them go in
their carts and it
started to be-- it's an energy
that everybody's giving off
and I'm starting to absorb that.
And I'm starting to feel it too.
And I thought, wait a minute,
I don't want to go there.
So what I did is I just started
to tell people, people that I
have no idea who they
are, no connection at all,
I just started
telling them, I just
look at it them for a moment and
say, I love you just silently.
I love you.
And I'm telling you,
within 10 people, I was--
I'm sure I was the
highest vibration
person in the whole place.
Anybody can do this.
It's amazing how powerful
it is and how easily
and how quickly it
can shift your energy.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
>> NELSON: So that's
a great technique.
One of the other things that
we talk about in the book
at the very end is forgiveness.
Because when people do
things that hurt others
or when people do
things that hurt us,
the natural human tendency
is to withhold forgiveness,
because we want to get
even with that person.
And we're only
hurting ourselves.
Lewis Smedes said
that, "forgiveness
is like letting the prisoner
go free only to find out
that the prisoner was you."
And so if there are
people in your life
that you need to forgive,
you need to forgive them.
Let it go.
And I know that
some people believe
that it's enough to just become
indifferent to what they did
to you or indifferent to them.
But I don't believe that.
I think that you really truly--
to really have peace
in your own life,
you'll never have it
until you forgive.
And sometimes you need
to forgive yourself.
And that's the person that
needs it the most sometimes.
>> REGINA: Very true.
And as you're
speaking these words,
I've always had an
odd relationship--
and I know my husband's
called me on it, he said,
you don't believe
in forgiveness?
And I said, I don't in the
classic sense of the word
because the way my being
works is what I do instead
is I go into and try to walk
in their shoes emotionally
and understand, really try to
understand what the factors are
in their life that would
take them to that point,
to do the thing that was
hurtful or painful or whatever.
And I find that
no forgiveness is
needed if you can
understand why someone was
motivated to do what they do.
And I think to take the
time to really understand
another person or the
classic walk a mile
in someone else's shoes
is really critical
and it almost eliminates
the need to even have
to go through any forgiveness.
It's understood.
It's understanding.
>> NELSON: That's a great point.
>> REGINA: And everyone has to
decide how they want to deal
with it because a lot of times,
forgiveness is I'm holding this
over you but I forgive you.
There's something
missing in that for me.
>> NELSON: Yeah.
>> REGINA: I would rather
understand the person.
>> NELSON: I think that's
absolutely important
because if you can understand
what caused them to do
the things that they did, then--
>> REGINA: A reaction comes out.
>> NELSON: Well, exactly.
Sometimes we need
help to forgive.
I mean, sometimes--
I had a situation in
my life where I was--
I felt very wronged by some
people that were close to me.
And I didn't feel
like I would ever
be able to associate
with them again.
and I felt like it was beyond my
ability to be able to forgive.
And so what I did is I gave
it back to the higher power,
and I said, God, if
you want me to be
able to work with these
people in the future,
you're going to need to help me
to forgive them because I'm not
able to do it on my own.
I couldn't do it.
And it was a fascinating thing.
I offered that prayer
about three times.
And on the morning of
the third day, I woke up
and it was all gone.
And God had just taken
it out of my being.
>> REGINA: Well, there
you go and that's grace.
Because to continue
this thought,
there are things people
do that are self-motivated
and just pure
greed, for example.
People will screw each other
out over for greedy purposes
which is not acceptable.
I mean, there's no way to kind
of look at that and justify it.
You could say, OK, maybe you
didn't have enough growing up.
And I mean, I'm kind of
contradicting myself now here.
And then beyond
that, if you think,
God, I've looked
at this every way.
That's just greed
and that's not fair.
And then the way
I'd go about it is,
I want to talk to that
person and reconcile this.
And you can't always
get reconciliation
because that person may not
feel that they're necessarily
operating out of greed or
selfishness or whatnot.
So they're not going
to see it in themselves
and you're not going to have
a reasonable conversation.
And that's where my way
of doing things absolutely
fails because you can't
truly understand why
someone would do these things.
So then that's where yours
comes in as very beautiful
and offering grace into the
situation when understanding
is impossible.
>> NELSON: Well, you know
the reality of it is,
we all need to be forgiven.
>> REGINA: Yeah, we
all have our stuff.
>> NELSON: Don't we?
We all do things that
looking back that we regret.
We all do things that now we
wouldn't even think of doing
but that we did when
we were younger.
We all have things that
we need forgiveness for.
And so I mean, to me, that's
what helps me to motivate--
I mean, there but for the
grace of God go right.
I should forgive anybody
and everybody in my life
because I need that myself.
>> REGINA: And we all do.
We all need that grace.
We all need that grace where
we've lied to ourselves,
for example, and we've
hoodwinked ourselves
and justified things
in our own name.
So this is-- thank you for
bringing this last chapter
of the book up.
I think it's really important we
have this little conversation.
>> NELSON: It's a good chapter.
>> REGINA: Good.
OK, now, let's go on to
working with the heart while
in particular right now.
What happens and how
one starts that process?
And what one can expect to see?
And sometimes when it
doesn't work so well, what
is going on there?
>> NELSON: Well, first
of all, of course,
we have a network of
practitioners that work
remotely and live and in
person in 80 countries around
the world.
And so you can go to
our website and you
can find somebody
to work with you,
or you can do this yourself.
And that's one of the
beautiful things about it.
And that's what we really
encourage people to do
is get the book.
It's not expensive.
>> REGINA: Yeah,
start working with it.
>> NELSON: It's
available everywhere.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
>> NELSON: Start
working with it.
Learn the fundamentals of it.
And then you can start to remove
your own emotional baggage
and clear the heat wall
from your own self.
And families do that.
It changes the family
dynamics entirely.
Teams of creative
people do this.
And it changes the
ability of the team
to create synergistically.
And they're able to create
more than they otherwise
would have been able to.
But it's just a process.
Getting rid of emotional
baggage is something
that we can all do.
In fact, it's so simple that
kids can learn how to do it.
And they are.
And they're having really
good success around the world.
>> REGINA: Well, OK, so give
us an idea what that looks like
as a little kid.
Give us the kid
version of it and what
they would do in this process.
>> NELSON: Well, for example--
>> REGINA: Say so-and-so stole
your stuff and you popped him
one, [CHUCKLES] as a kid.
>> NELSON: OK, well, basically
we use muscle testing.
And so if you were
another child and--
>> REGINA: I'm mad because
you stole my stuff.
>> NELSON: Yeah, OK, well, we
might have to reconcile that
first, then maybe clear the
emotional baggage later.
Well, a great example--
I'm not sure if
I told this story
on one of the other
shows, but there
was a woman who
told me the story
that she got "The Emotion
Code" and started reading it.
And then her son started
reading it and listening to it.
And he started practicing
with his friends.
And she didn't pay
too much attention.
But a couple of weeks went by.
And one day the phone rings.
And she picks up the phone.
And there's a woman on the
other end of the phone line
who identifies herself
as the mother of one
of her son's friends.
And she says, listen, your son's
been doing this emotional thing
with the other boys.
And she said, I thought
it was kind of cute.
But she said, I have
to tell you something,
she said, my son has a
severe phobia of water.
You can have a
phobia to anything.
She said, this has been
very disruptive to our life
and his life.
And we've tried everything,
taken him to everybody.
Nothing has ever fixed this.
She said, right now, I'm
at the community pool.
My son's out
playing in the water
with the other boys for the
first time in his whole life.
She said, what is
your son doing?
How is this even possible?
Your son did this.
Those two boys are
only 11 years old.
So what it would
look like, basically,
in a case like that is
we'll say that you're
the boy with the phobia.
Well, the other boy might
have said, hold out your arm.
And then he might have said,
do you have a trapped emotion
that we can release that's
contributing to your phobia
or that's causing
your phobia of water?
And if the answer
was strong for yes,
then he would have had
The Emotion Code chart.
And he would have
asked, OK, is this--
and there's 60
emotions in the chart.
There's two columns, six rows.
And he would have said, is
the emotion in column A?
Maybe it was in column B. Is
it in one of the odd rows?
Maybe no.
OK, maybe it's in row 2, row 4.
OK, well, is it this or this?
OK, it's panic.
So then do we need to
know more about this?
No.
Sometimes you have to
figure out a little more.
But then it's just a matter of
swiping with a hand or a magnet
down the back, down
the governing meridian.
And that's probably
about all it took.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
>> NELSON: [CHUCKLES]
>> REGINA: Yeah, I mean,
that is really simple.
OK.
So something else
is coming up here.
This is based on
personal experience
I had, years ago,
when I was doing
some hypnotherapy years ago.
And I was working with a client.
And they were looking
for enhanced performance
in the world of saber fencing.
They were ranked 66th in
the country or something
in the 40s-and-over division.
And they wanted to go for it.
And so anyway, I
started doing sessions.
This person trusted me.
And I said, do you mind
if we do it silently?
Same thing you're
talking about basically.
Because we were using
ideomotor response.
But like you talked
about projecting love
to people in Costco,
is it possible
that we can do
exactly what you're
talking about if we have the
book and the page in front
of us?
And saying, if you
trust me on this,
and then just you ask the
question of them mind to mind.
And that way it can bypass any
preconceived notions they have.
>> NELSON: Yes, you
can totally do that.
>> REGINA: You can.
I'd love to play with that
and see what kind of results.
This guy did great.
He went to sixth in
the country on a couple
of these silent sessions.
It was so powerful because his
mind was never involved in it.
>> NELSON: Yeah,
and that's fine.
And you can do that as well.
You can ask questions vocally.
You can ask them non-vocally.
It doesn't matter.
It works at a distance, works
at any distance, doesn't matter.
>> REGINA: I love it.
Yeah, that's just so direct.
So now what happens if
you're a practitioner working
with the person at home?
Are they doing their own
muscle testing or using
another divination device?
How do they do it?
>> NELSON: Yeah, good question.
The way that it works
is the human body
has this amazing ability
that's built right into it
to set aside its own needs to
act on behalf of someone else.
And so we call this
working by proxy.
A proxy is somebody that acts
or stands in for someone else.
And so the human body
has this ability.
And so essentially what happens
is if I were working on you,
for example, and let's say
that you're in Budapest,
what I would do is we don't
have to be on the phone,
for example.
But as long as I
have your permission
to work on you, at some
point, I could simply--
usually how I do it is I'll
just offer a short prayer,
just ask for divine help
to help me to help you.
And then I'll just ask if
I can act as proxy for you.
And I'll muscle test myself.
If I get a yes on that, great.
In fact, what's so interesting
is that, normally, of course,
strength is yes and
weaknesses no in muscle
testing the way we teach it.
And normally if I were to
say, "my name is Brad--"
my name is Brad--
that would be strong.
But when the proxy
connection gets made,
it's a wireless connection that
is so profound that if I say,
at that point, when the
connection is made, if I say,
"my name is Regina," it's
strong, and "my name is Brad,"
that would be weak.
And then, at that
point, what I can
do is I can go ahead, since
I'm acting on your behalf,
I'll ask questions,
I'll get answers,
and I can use The Body
Code or The Emotion Code,
find whatever
imbalances are going on,
and clear those on myself,
and they clear from you.
And then, when we're done,
we just break the connection
and that's how it's done.
It's really easy.
>> REGINA: Well, we
know, historically,
even though it can be a little
messier and less understood
and not even have
protocols around it,
we know that people have
impacted people at a distance
in healing.
I mean, this has historically
always been true,
remote healing.
>> NELSON: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: So this is just a
type of remote healing that is
very specific, where you
can go through layers of it.
And so you can target what
the pinpoint underlying
factors are.
Where with another remote
healing, you might get a call,
somebody's just fallen
from the second story
and they're on the ground
and just do something.
It's not very specific.
So this is really beautiful
in its specificity.
>> NELSON: Well, it is.
And you know, what we
tell our students is,
the first time that you're
on the phone with somebody
and they're several states
or several countries away
or on the other
side of the planet
and you release something
from them using The Body
Code or The Emotion Code and
their pain level goes from a 9
to a 0 in a heartbeat, then, in
that moment, your life changes
because you realize that,
yeah, this actually does work.
And it's all about
quantum physics really.
>> REGINA: It is.
And quantum entanglement.
>> NELSON: Exactly.
It's about entanglement and
collapsing the wave function
and all of those things.
But it's just the practical
application of all that.
Thank goodness we
understand it now.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
Because I'm sure,
a number of years
ago, when you first
got going, you
had a lot of 'splaining to do.
>> NELSON: That's exactly right.
>> REGINA: You don't have
to explain so much to this
audience.
We're up to speed on
that one, I think.
Now we just have to use it,
validate it for ourselves.
You were saying
earlier, people can have
an allergy to almost anything.
And we were talking off camera.
And you said there
was one lady who
had an allergy to making money.
Do you want to share
that story with us?
Because I'm sure there are
a lot of people right now
that can relate.
>> NELSON: Yeah, this
is a great story.
This is from a woman named
Anne Heshan from Rhode Island.
She said, "Before I started
working with The Body Code,
I had been
self-employed for many.
I had created some
success, but I just
kept bumping up against
an income barrier
that I could never
seem to get past."
That ring a bell for anybody?
"Using The Body Code,
I decided to see
if it could help me
finally break through
in this area of my life.
I was immediately led
to an idea "allergy."
You can be allergic to anything,
including ideas, we have found.
And with a little testing,
I was able to figure out
that this idea allergy boiled
down to a subconscious belief
that if I made a lot of money,
it would ruin my marriage.
I cleared that idea allergy with
three quick swipes--" so just
like this, of a
magnet or her hand.
"I had no idea how
quickly I would
see the results of
removing that one block.
In less than a month, my
income more than doubled
and I finally achieved and
went over a monthly income
goal I had been chasing and
never hitting for years.
And what's more, in the
six months since then,
my monthly income has
not once gone down
below that goal I had
chased for so long.
"Meanwhile, I just celebrated
my 25th wedding anniversary
where my awesome husband
and I renewed our vows.
It's extraordinary the
difference it made in my life
using The Body Code on
that abundance block."
Anne Heshan, Rhode Island.
>> REGINA: That's wonderful.
>> NELSON: [CHUCKLES]
>> REGINA: OK, now how do you
distinguish an idea allergy
to just a kind of
corrupt, firmly held,
subconscious belief.
>> NELSON: Well, we let the
subconscious mind figure that
out.
We let the subconscious mind
do all the heavy lifting.
So with The Body Code, what we
have is, if you can imagine,
a hierarchical mind map that
actually runs in your phone.
And the beauty of it is
because the subconscious mind
is immersed in and
is fully connected
to the database of
universal intelligence,
the subconscious
mind of every person
knows exactly what
is in The Body Code.
So when we're trying to find
an imbalance with somebody--
like let's say, for example,
that you're stuck in abundance
and you're trying to
create more whatever.
What we would do is,
using The Body Code,
we would simply ask
your subconscious mind,
with this chart in mind--
it's kind of a
massive database--
we would ask, is there
an underlying reason
why you're blocked about this?
And then we simply ask,
using muscle testing,
is the imbalance on the
right side of the chart
or on the left
side of the chart?
And then we very rapidly can
drill down to what it is.
And it could be a
trapped emotion,
it could be some
kind of a trauma,
it could be an idea allergy.
There's lots of
things it could be.
But the beauty of
it, you see, is
that your subconscious
mind, the subconscious
mind of every single
person, knows,
with a perfect understanding,
what is really going on in them
and what's really
going on with them.
And what's really blocking them,
what their real deficiencies
are as far as
vitamins and minerals,
the subconscious knows.
The subconscious knows what
emotional baggage you have.
It knows if you've
got a parasite.
It knows if you've got viruses.
It knows about everything
with a perfect comprehension.
So all we do is we
just use this mapping
system to ask these questions
and drill down and then delete
and remove things or add things
that might need to be added.
>> REGINA: In the quantum field.
>> NELSON: Exactly.
>> REGINA: You just
brought this up a bit ago.
We were talking about data.
OK, so your other profession
was in the computer industry.
And so here we're looking
at a computer metaphor.
And so how does our subconscious
and mind work, in a sense,
as a cloud and sort through this
massive amount of data and then
pinpoint the data
point that needs
to be reflected back to us?
>> NELSON: Well, what I've
learned is to just trust it.
Because the subconscious
mind is this computer
that we can't really comprehend.
And like I said before, it
knows everything that we need.
And that's how,
in my practice, I
was able to help people who
had been told that there
was no cure for them.
And so if you can
imagine, for 10 years,
I was primarily
working with people
that have been told
there was no hope at all.
And yet I knew I had a
secret weapon because I could
ask their subconscious mind.
And I believe that this
is the future of healing.
>> REGINA: Oh, I
do too, totally.
>> NELSON: It really is.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
>> NELSON: Because every
single person has this massive
database.
And as a computer
programmer, when
I went to chiropractic
school, I can
remember sitting in my classes.
And my instructors
would say things
like, the brain is the
most amazing computer
that we know of.
And I can remember sitting
there thinking, wow,
will we ever be able to
actually tap into it?
What if we could tap in and
then access all that data?
And that's exactly what we
do now with The Body Code
and with The Emotion Code too.
But The Emotion Code is
included in The Body Code.
The Body Code is the
system that I put together.
There are really six
different kinds of imbalances
that we suffer from
that create all
of our mental and physical
and emotional problems.
And so what you can do
is you can simply ask.
And then if you
just trust it, it
will take you right
to whatever it is.
And then you release
it or address
that however you need to.
And all the instructions
are all in there.
>> REGINA: And this is
in the forthcoming book,
"The Body Code."
>> NELSON: Yeah, "The Body Code"
book is coming out this fall
sometime.
And it's going to be an
overview of The Body Code.
The Body Code
system itself, if we
were to publish it in a book,
it would be about this thick.
>> REGINA: Right.
But you also developed an
app that has all that in it.
>> NELSON: That's the app that
had-- yeah, it's all digital.
>> REGINA: You can get
interfaces with it.
Yeah, so you got that.
So people can interface with
it whichever way they wish.
And so you've just clearly
defined these six categories
you're talking about.
And I want to get into
one of them about healing.
We were just talking
for a brief moment,
off camera, which is you had
an experience around viruses.
And that matters right now.
Because I think, for the
first time, humanity at large
is reading about viruses
[CHUCKLES] since the pandemic
and since we have so much
access to information.
And we have a lot of
information, misinformation,
we don't understand what
we're reading a lot of times.
So what was your
experience with viruses
that can help clarify this?
>> NELSON: Well, this was
something that was totally
unexpected.
But you know, of course I
studied viruses in biology
and went through
chiropractic school
and everything else, like
so many other people.
So one day, I had been
in practice for a while,
and a woman came in
to me and she said,
I've been diagnosed
with Epstein-Barr virus.
And so I want you to help me.
So I started thinking about it.
And I was in the habit of
asking for help from the divine,
from God, however
you refer to it,
with each person that I saw.
And it was a totally private,
totally personal habit.
Before I go to work on somebody,
I would just take a moment
and just say, yeah, I
need some help here.
And so I started
thinking about this.
And I just offered this prayer.
And I said, Father, if
there's a better way
to deal with this
will you please
help me to understand it.
And all of a sudden I had this
download, this understanding
that kind of poured into me.
And here's what it was.
It basically said,
OK, you can think
of a virus as little organisms
like in traditional biology.
Or another way to
think of a virus
is to think of it
as just pure energy,
like a cloud of energy,
which is also valid.
It's valid on both
sides of that.
>> REGINA: Just as we are.
>> NELSON: Just as we are.
Exactly right.
And if you can think of a
virus as a cloud of energy,
then it frees your mind
to be able to manipulate
that cloud of energy
like you'd remove
a trapped emotion
or anything else.
So I was able to help that lady.
And then I had another
interesting thing
that happened to me that
taught me about this.
This woman came
in to me one day.
And her complaint
was she had a cough.
And when she would
breathe in deep,
she'd start coughing
uncontrollably.
And so I tested her and
found she had a virus that
had settled into her lungs.
It was a common cold virus.
And so I released it from
her, just thinking this way,
removing it as an energy.
And I said, OK, try it now.
And she took a deep breath,
and it was totally fine.
She couldn't believe it.
She was just raving.
It was like a miracle, right?
So anyway, I walk out with
her, out to the front desk.
And she's so happy.
And she says goodbye.
And then I walked
back down the hall
and into my treatment room.
And as I walked
through the door,
something entered my body.
I felt something
come into my body.
And I thought--
>> REGINA: And you
started coughing.
>> NELSON: And I
took a deep breath.
And I started coughing
uncontrollably.
>> REGINA: Oh no.
>> NELSON: Now, listen, in
terms of Western medicine
and biology, that
makes no sense at all.
Because a virus has to hijack
the machinery of the cell
and take over and
reproduce more viruses.
But what I learned was it's
really all just energy.
And so I was able to
release that from myself.
And I was fine, so
I mean immediately.
But that taught me another
powerful lesson about our world
and the reality of our
existence is that we
are beings of pure energy.
And everything else is energy
too, including viruses.
And so I think that you can
at least weaken a viral energy
that is in your body.
But viewing things
in this way is really
a higher level of thinking.
>> REGINA: Or even ask the
virus to work in companionship
and harmony with you.
>> NELSON: You
can even try that.
>> REGINA: I mean, try it.
What the heck.
I mean, so much of
this-- the mind.
>> NELSON: Exactly.
>> REGINA: The mind.
I mean, we are
not, I don't think,
anywhere near the
stage of understanding
the incredible power of
each and every thought
that passes through us--
>> NELSON: I
couldn't agree more.
>> REGINA: --and its impact
on ourselves and the entire
universe.
So let's talk about placebo.
If a person comes to you
and they-- you're the guy.
You're the one
that created this.
They're coming to you.
They're expecting.
How much of it is
the expectation
being met because
they're open to it
and the mind is ready to
receive this shift now?
>> NELSON: Well, you know,
that's a great question.
When I was in practice,
I tried to screen
for people who
really truly believed
that they couldn't get well.
Because a lot of my
patients were people
that had been told
that they were never
going to get better,
that they were
going to be sick for
the rest of their lives.
>> REGINA: So they had
a firmly-held belief.
>> NELSON: The people who really
truly incorporated that belief,
it seemed that no matter what I
did, they wouldn't get better.
And I think that really
just about any doctor
will tell you that a person has
to have some level of belief
in order for things to work.
>> REGINA: Just a little
openness to say it's possible.
>> NELSON: Exactly.
Sometimes that's all you need.
It's interesting, because in
the Bible, in the New Testament,
I've always liked the
story where Jesus is out
changing water to wine and
giving sight back to people
and healing the
lepers and so on.
But he goes back
to his hometown.
And it says that he can't
do any miracles there
because they didn't
believe that he was--
>> REGINA: He was just a guy.
>> NELSON: Yeah, oh, that's the
kid that broke my window with
his baseball or whatever.
And so in spite of
how powerful he was,
he couldn't do any
miracles there,
which I've always
thought was interesting.
>> REGINA: That's interesting.
OK, so here's one of
the big questions.
We have this perfect mechanism.
We have this powerful,
powerful mind.
We have a body
and a subconscious
that is able to diagnose and
contend with almost anything.
It can find the truth
and the data for us.
We have a higher mind that
can set an intention in motion
that's capable of fixing
pretty much anything,
what we call miracles.
All of it's there.
We possess all of it.
And a body set up to self-heal.
And yet look how sick we are.
So why is this information
kind of so remote and seemingly
hidden from us?
>> NELSON: Well, I think that
in the same way that we've kind
of become disconnected
from each other,
especially over the last
year or so, many people are
disconnected from the higher
power, many people are also--
how can we say this?
The problem is there are all
of these vested interests.
And the old saying about
conventional wisdom
is that if it's
conventional wisdom,
it's probably been
bought and paid for.
And so the things
that most people tend
to believe as being true, if
they were to actually analyze
those beliefs to see where
those have really come from
and who was funding
those beliefs,
then I think that that
is a place to start,
where we need to shift our
systems of absorbing knowledge.
And I think that we
need to start really
looking inward and
trusting our own intuition
as the highest and the best
guidance that we can get.
For example, the story that
I just told about, asking for
help to understand viruses.
And that information came to me.
If I hadn't asked
for that help, I
would have lived my entire
life and never probably would
have understood that really.
So I think that if
we ask, we receive.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
That's what I find.
When it comes to higher
guidance, a lot of times
my biggest mistake
is I forget to ask.
I'll go years without
asking something,
even if I'm curious about it.
You never think
to maybe just ask.
And then, when I ask, it's
like, oh my god, thank you.
That was easy.
Why didn't I ask
a few years ago?
>> NELSON: I know.
We're human.
>> REGINA: I know.
We're silly, silly
things, ninnymuggins.
[CHUCKLES]
There's something else.
And that's something
that I personally
observe and I have
noticed and I certainly
notice in my own life.
And that is, as long as we
have desire, as long as we
have desire that leads toward--
and I don't mean desire like
I want to pop another beer
or have another
cookie, I mean a desire
that's coming from somewhere
else and we follow it.
And it can be something
simple, like you
know what, I'm going to
go see my grandma today.
You know, that makes me happy
to think of making her happy.
Or it's like, for me, I
have this fierce desire
to help uncover
truth wherever I can,
anywhere and everywhere I can.
And that keeps me
going in my career.
Because even if I'm getting
tired on some level or
have been doing the same
job for a long time,
that spark of desire
doesn't change.
Even simple desires to just--
I want to have some
people over for dinner.
I think I'll make a
beautiful dish for them.
As long as we have
desire, it seems to me
that that's the kind of thing
that refreshes the spirit
and allows for
these other things
to continue working
well together.
And once our desire
goes, once the joy goes,
once the flame goes down,
none of these other systems
really seem to work that well.
And we get old.
>> NELSON: Mm-hmm, I think so.
Well, we are children
of the divine.
And the divine is
all about creation.
>> REGINA: Creativity.
>> NELSON: Yeah, creativity.
And so what happens to people
if they retire and they
stop creating, well,
they wither away.
>> REGINA: They do.
>> NELSON: And they die.
And so yes, I think
that that's really
an absolutely powerful key
to maintaining your sanity
but also to developing
your own happiness and joy,
is to keep creating.
And you're right, it can
just be little things.
It doesn't have
to be huge things.
But you don't want
to stop creating.
>> REGINA: Daily,
regularly, little things.
>> NELSON: Little things.
And you know, you
mentioned something
about having that little
thought to do something creative
or to serve someone in some way.
And it's important for us now
especially to be open to those,
to listen to those, and
to get those answers.
You know, it's interesting,
because in the work that we
do when we teach people how
to do muscle testing and so
on, what we teach them
is, when you're doing
this work with The Emotion
Code and The Body Code,
it won't take long.
And you'll have an
experience where,
suddenly, a moment
before you get
the answer on muscle
testing, you'll
know the answer in your heart.
>> REGINA: Because you've
already put the intention out.
>> NELSON: And that's
your intuition.
And if you feed that,
you can get to a point
where you really don't
need muscle testing.
You can just do it
all by intuition.
>> REGINA: You know.
Then you're in a
state of knowing.
>> NELSON: Exactly right.
>> REGINA: And then you get
enough validation and you
understand to trust
that place of knowing.
>> NELSON: And so I think
that that's a big part of why
we're here, is to learn how to
trust that little inner voice,
the voice that comes
from the light.
And if we continue
to follow that,
we gradually ascend and get
to higher and higher planes.
>> REGINA: Couldn't agree more.
We're on the same page.
OK, I have a big
question here for you.
If you were going to
start, based on all this,
a movement that would benefit
the most people on the planet--
I know this is kind of
near and dear to you--
what would that be?
What would that look like?
>> NELSON: Well, it's the
movement that we're doing right
now.
It's opening people's minds,
it's opening people's hearts,
It's giving back to every man,
woman, and child on this planet
the healing birthright
that belongs to them.
Because everyone has
the ability to heal--
to heal themselves, to
heal their family members,
their loved ones.
And there's never been anything
as simple as The Emotion
Code and The Body Code, never
been anything as comprehensive
as The Body Code that
anyone can learn how to use.
And that's exactly
what we're doing,
is giving people
back that birthright.
And so that's a great
question, though.
But that is exactly
what we're doing.
And I'm so grateful to be
doing what I believe I'm really
supposed to be doing.
>> REGINA: Well, and obviously
your energy is clean and clear.
You're very focused and you're
very passionate and very
committed to what you do.
I sit across from
a lot of people.
And a lot of people have
an idea and intellectually
can propagate information.
But they're not all in,
you know what I mean?
You can tell by someone's
energy when they're all in.
And you're all in, I can tell.
>> NELSON: You too.
Thanks, Regina.
>> REGINA: So any final words
you want to share with us?
It's been a really interesting
and fun discussion.
>> NELSON: Yeah, it has been.
Well, I think that it's
always important for everybody
to remember that there's
the yin and the yang,
you know, the yin yang symbol.
As things seem to get
darker, somewhere things
are getting lighter.
Because the light
and the dark always
stay in a state of balance.
And so don't get too
worried if you're looking
too much at the darkness.
If the darkness seems to be
going up, look for the light
because it's increasing too.
And I think we're moving
into a marvelous age
where things are going to happen
faster and more powerfully
than they've ever
happened before.
I think it's going to
blow all of our minds
how easy it becomes to
get answers from above
and to see miracles happen.
I think it's just going
to be a really fun time.
So there's a lot
to look forward to.
>> REGINA: Thank you
so much, Bradley.
I loved it.
>> NELSON: Thank you, Regina.
Me too.
It was fun.
>> REGINA: We could all use a
little bit of help these days,
I'm absolutely sure.
To connect with The Emotion
Code, you can buy the book.
The Body Code app
is also available.
And you can also
reach out to Bradley
via discoverhealing.com.
You can also do
a little bingeing
if you want to watch my
previous interview with Bradley.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]